README.md, before:

# I Have Nothing to Play - Game Backlog Manager App

## About the Project

![IHNtP screenshot][screenshot]

The I Have Nothing to Play project is a full-stack web application. It enables users to track and manage their gaming wishlist and backlog. Right now it is a foundament of a bigger and more complex web application. The backend is built with Java and Spring Boot, while the frontend utilizes JavaScript, all containerized using Docker for streamlined deployment. 


### Core Features

* **User Authentication:** The application includes user registration and login functionalities to personalize the experience.
* **Wishlist and Backlog** Users have personal wishlists and backlogs
* **Add and Remove Games from Wishlist and Backlog**
* **Persistent Relational Database** The application uses a PostgreSQL database to store data in the backend side.
* **Dockerization:** The application is fully containerized using Docker.
* **Backend Tests:** Unit tests cover the business logic of the Backend side of the application and there are integration tests ensuring system reliability.


### Built with

* [![Node.js][Node-ico]][Node-url]
* [![React][React-ico]][React-url]
* [![Tailwind css][Tailwind-ico]][Tailwind-url]
* [![DaisyUI][DaisyUI-ico]][DaisyUI-url]
* [![Maven][Maven-ico]][Maven-url]
* [![Java Spring][JavaSpring-ico]][JavaSpring-url]
* [![JUnit][JUnit-ico]][JUnit-url]
* [![PostgreSQL][PostgreSQL-ico]][PostgreSQL-url]


## Getting Started

#### Download app

You can download the application here: [IHNtP GitHub page](https://github.com/mecsbalint/IHNtP). Click on the Code button and choose the Download ZIP option. After downloading unzip it.
Or alternatively clone the repository: ```git clone https://github.com/mecsbalint/IHNtP```

### With Docker

#### Prerequisites

* **Docker Desktop:** You can download from here: [Docker Desktop][Docker-Desktop]. You have to sign up to use the Docker Desktop app.

#### Set Up and Run
1. **Install and Run Docker Desktop:** Download and run the installation file and follow the steps. After installation run the Docker Desktop application.
2. **Set up .env file**
    1. Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env` in the app's root folder
    2. Optionally you can change the JWT secret key, the JWT expiration time, the database' username or password or the port number (for more details see [.env.example](https://github.com/mecsbalint/IHNtP/blob/main/.env.example))
3. **Start the Application:** Run the `docker-start.bat` batch file from the application's root folder.
4. **Access the Application:** Open a web browser and go to `http://localhost:` + `PORT_NUMBER` to access the frontend (by default it's `http://localhost:5173`). The port number can be changed in the `.env.example` file.
5. **Stop the application:** Run the `docker-stop.bat` batch file from the application's root folder.

### Manual Setup (Without Docker)
#### Prerequisites

* **Java Development Kit** 21 or above [Download](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)
* **Apache Maven** [Download](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)
* **Node.js** [Download](https://nodejs.org/en/download)
* **PostgreSQL** [Download](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

#### Installation

1. **Set up PostgreSQL Database**
    1. Create a database dedicated to this application ([step-by-step guide](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/tutorial-createdb.html))
    2. Replace the `spring.datasource.url`, `spring.datasource.username` and `spring.datasource.password` variables' value with your database' properties in the `\ihntp-backend\src\main\resources\application.properties` file.
2. **Set up, Build and Run Spring Boot Backend**
    1. Set up the `mecsbalint.app.jwtExpirationMs` and `mecsbalint.app.jwtSecret` variables in the `\ihntp-backend\src\main\resources\application.properties` file.
    2. Open a terminal and navigate to the `\ihntp-backend` folder
    3. Run the `mvnw clean package` command (build the backend application with Maven).
    4. Run the `mvnw spring-boot:run` command (run the backend application).
3. **Install dependencies and Run the React Frontend**
    1. Open a terminal and navigate to the `\ihntp-frontend` folder
    2. Run the `npm install` command (install dependencies)
    3. Run the `npm run dev` command (run the frontend application)
4. **Access the Application**
    1. Click on the `Local` link in the terminal where the frontend is running.


## Roadmap

- [x] Wishlist and Backlog
- [x] Dockerization
- [ ] Avatar image selection
- [ ] Edit game and add new game pages
- [ ] Integrate price information from IsThereAnyDeals API
- [ ] Search bar for games
- [ ] Tracking users ownership of games


## Contact

mecsbalint@gmail.com - https://github.com/mecsbalint


<!-- Links -->

[Docker-Desktop]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

[screenshot]: readme_resources/ihntp_screenshot_01.png

[Node-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js
[Node-url]: https://nodejs.org/

[React-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react
[React-url]: https://reactjs.org/

[Tailwind-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss
[Tailwind-url]: https://tailwindcss.com/

[DaisyUI-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/DaisyUI-DD0031?style=for-the-badge&logo=daisyui
[DaisyUI-url]: https://daisyui.com/

[Maven-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Maven-0769AD?style=for-the-badge&logo=apachemaven
[Maven-url]: https://maven.apache.org/

[JavaSpring-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring-FF2D20?style=for-the-badge&logo=spring
[JavaSpring-url]: https://spring.io/

[JUnit-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/JUnit-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=junit5
[JUnit-url]: https://junit.org/junit5/

[PostgreSQL-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-4A4A55?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql
[PostgreSQL-url]: https://www.postgresql.org/

Commit message:

Add DB_INITIALIZATION as env variable

README.md, after:

# I Have Nothing to Play - Game Backlog Manager App

## About the Project

![IHNtP screenshot][screenshot]

The I Have Nothing to Play project is a full-stack web application. It enables users to track and manage their gaming wishlist and backlog. Right now, it is the foundation of a larger and more complex web application. The backend is built with Java and Spring Boot, while the frontend utilizes JavaScript, all containerized using Docker for streamlined deployment. 


### Core Features

* **User Authentication:** The application includes user registration and login functionalities to personalize the experience.
* **Wishlist and Backlog** Users have personal wishlists and backlogs
* **Add and Remove Games from Wishlist and Backlog**
* **Persistent Relational Database** The application uses a PostgreSQL database to store data in the backend side.
* **Dockerization:** The application is fully containerized using Docker.
* **Backend Tests:** Unit tests cover the business logic of the Backend side of the application and there are integration tests ensuring system reliability.


### Built with

* [![Node.js][Node-ico]][Node-url]
* [![React][React-ico]][React-url]
* [![Tailwind css][Tailwind-ico]][Tailwind-url]
* [![DaisyUI][DaisyUI-ico]][DaisyUI-url]
* [![Maven][Maven-ico]][Maven-url]
* [![Java Spring][JavaSpring-ico]][JavaSpring-url]
* [![JUnit][JUnit-ico]][JUnit-url]
* [![PostgreSQL][PostgreSQL-ico]][PostgreSQL-url]


## Getting Started

#### Download app

You can download the application here: [IHNtP GitHub page](https://github.com/mecsbalint/IHNtP). Click on the Code button and choose the Download ZIP option. After downloading unzip it.
Or alternatively clone the repository: ```git clone https://github.com/mecsbalint/IHNtP```

### With Docker

#### Prerequisites

* **Docker Desktop:** You can download from here: [Docker Desktop][Docker-Desktop]. You have to sign up to use the Docker Desktop app.

#### Set Up and Run
1. **Install and Run Docker Desktop:** Download and run the installation file and follow the steps. After installation run the Docker Desktop application.
2. **Set up .env file**
    1. Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env` in the app's root folder
    2. Optionally you can change the JWT secret key, the JWT expiration time, the database' username or password, the port number or the database initialization type (for more details see [.env.example](https://github.com/mecsbalint/IHNtP/blob/main/.env.example))
3. **Start the Application:** Run the `docker-start.bat` batch file from the application's root folder.
4. **Access the Application:** Open a web browser and go to `http://localhost:` + `PORT_NUMBER` to access the frontend (by default it's `http://localhost:5173`). The port number can be changed in the `.env.example` file.
5. **Stop the application:** Run the `docker-stop.bat` batch file from the application's root folder.

### Manual Setup (Without Docker)
#### Prerequisites

* **Java Development Kit** 21 or above [Download](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)
* **Apache Maven** [Download](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)
* **Node.js** [Download](https://nodejs.org/en/download)
* **PostgreSQL** [Download](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

#### Installation

1. **Set up PostgreSQL Database**
    1. Create a database dedicated to this application ([step-by-step guide](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/tutorial-createdb.html))
    2. Replace the `spring.datasource.url`, `spring.datasource.username` and `spring.datasource.password` variables' value with your database' properties in the `\ihntp-backend\src\main\resources\application.properties` file.
    3. Set up the `spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto` in the `\ihntp-backend\src\main\resources\application.properties` file.
2. **Set up, Build and Run Spring Boot Backend**
    1. Set up the `mecsbalint.app.jwtExpirationMs` and `mecsbalint.app.jwtSecret` variables in the `\ihntp-backend\src\main\resources\application.properties` file.
    2. Open a terminal and navigate to the `\ihntp-backend` folder
    3. Run the `mvnw clean package` command (build the backend application with Maven).
    4. Run the `mvnw spring-boot:run` command (run the backend application).
3. **Install dependencies and Run the React Frontend**
    1. Open a terminal and navigate to the `\ihntp-frontend` folder
    2. Run the `npm install` command (install dependencies)
    3. Run the `npm run dev` command (run the frontend application)
4. **Access the Application**
    1. Click on the `Local` link in the terminal where the frontend is running.


## Roadmap

- [x] Wishlist and Backlog
- [x] Dockerization
- [ ] Avatar image selection
- [ ] Edit game and add new game pages
- [ ] Integrate price information from IsThereAnyDeals API
- [ ] Search bar for games
- [ ] Tracking users ownership of games


## Contact

mecsbalint@gmail.com - https://github.com/mecsbalint


<!-- Links -->

[Docker-Desktop]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

[screenshot]: readme_resources/ihntp_screenshot_01.png

[Node-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js
[Node-url]: https://nodejs.org/

[React-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react
[React-url]: https://reactjs.org/

[Tailwind-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind-35495E?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwindcss
[Tailwind-url]: https://tailwindcss.com/

[DaisyUI-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/DaisyUI-DD0031?style=for-the-badge&logo=daisyui
[DaisyUI-url]: https://daisyui.com/

[Maven-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Maven-0769AD?style=for-the-badge&logo=apachemaven
[Maven-url]: https://maven.apache.org/

[JavaSpring-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring-FF2D20?style=for-the-badge&logo=spring
[JavaSpring-url]: https://spring.io/

[JUnit-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/JUnit-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=junit5
[JUnit-url]: https://junit.org/junit5/

[PostgreSQL-ico]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-4A4A55?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql
[PostgreSQL-url]: https://www.postgresql.org/
